We can implement exponential back off in Spring Retry by swapping
our fixed back off policy with an exponential back off policy and
specifying the three setter methods, setInitialInterval,
setMaxInterval, and setMultiplier.
We are already familiar with initial interval and multiplier.
SetMaxInterval basically allows us to specify a back off
period ceiling such that if we reach it,
the service will stop retrying.
Let's get back to the code and implement exponential back off.
Starting in our properties file,
let's add three new properties called retry.exponential .initialBackoffInterval,
which we'll set to 500, retry.exponential .maxBackoffInterval,
which we'll set to 2000, and retry.exponential .backoffMultiplier,
which we'll set to 1.8.
Switching to our BassTrackerServiceApplication file,
let's retrieve the properties we just added and pass
them into the RetryTemplate bean.
We then create a new ExponentialBackoffPolicy and setInitialInterval,
maxInterval, and Multiplier to the properties we specified.
The last thing to do is swap the fixedBackOffPolicy on our
RetryTemplate with the new exponentialBackOffPolicy.
Switching to lake-profile-service,
we're keeping it the same as the fixedBackOffPolicy demo by
throwing an exception on getLakeProfile.
We will run it and then switch back to bass-tracker-service and run that.
In the logs, we see that our backoff duration started at about 500 ms,
then we multiplied that by 1.8 to get a backoff duration of about 900 ms,
then we multiplied that by 1.8 to get a backoff
duration of about 1640 milliseconds.
How cool is that?
At this point, feel free to add exponential back off to your resume skill list.
I'm kidding, of course,
but I hope you can see that Spring Retry support for custom policies is no joke.
Let's see what custom policies can do for SaaS Bass's
pain points and see if we can finally take care of their pesky resource race condition.